Lecture 3

All partitions – with the exception of the root(/) partition – can be mounted anywhere in the file-system hierarchy.

The file /etc/fstab specifies which disks/partitions to mount where.

To see the mounted file systems, we use the command mount.

Different kinds of file systems:
    Regular
    Journaling
    Network

System administrators routinely set up new systems, create new services, and need to be able to fine-tune software from the very lowest layers.

File system is responsible for storing data on the disk. Hence, it needs to know the physical blocks where data is located.

Information stored in an inode:
    user owner and group owner ID’s
    file type
    access mode (permissions)
    file access and modification time
    file status modification time
    number of links to the filesize of the file
    disk device containing this file

File types:
    regular files
    directories
    special files
    links
    sockets
    named pipes

Some systems are driven by their own firmware like RAID controller or Fibre Channel HBA.

Every sys-admin has a preferred operating system which is a result of years of experience and familiarity.

One of the most common service a sys-admin can be incharge of is a HTTP server

Boot process might include the following steps:
    Power-On Self Test(POST)
    Execution of Primary boot loader
    Access of the MBR
    Execution of secondary or second-stage boot loader.
    loading of the hypervisor and starting of the privileged doamin (dom0)
    etc.

We can define the kernel as the central component of the operating system in charge of process, device and memory management, facilitating access to the hardware via a small number of system calls.

Many Unix versions come in only exactly one flavor, one bundle of ker-nel plus libraries plus system utilities – the open source BSD versions andvirtually all of the “old” commercial Unix versions fall into this category.

Data files that remain the same across multiple hosts, and, as the manual page suggests, possibly even across different hardware architectures are considered shareable.

Data files that need to be individual to each host are considered un-shareable.

Files that are not expected to change during the runtime of the system are considered static. This includes the kernel, all system libraries and binaries and many data files

Files that are updated by the OS, by any running applications or by end-users at runtime, are termed variable.

The final purpose of the machine and the software it needs to run dictates our hardware choices, processor architecture, amount of memory and disk space, number of types of network interfaces.

Changing OS later results in high costs as services have to migrated, ported and verified while the server is already in use.

There is a thin line between system deployment and system configuration.

At times there are good reasons to manually install software.

No matter which method we use to install software, we are ex-posing our system to the risk of a software Trojan, the accidental installation of a backdoor, a piece of malware.

