OS installation is an ordered process ending with System reboot.

Software can be classified into 2 categories:
    System Software
    Third Party Software

Package managers provide easy and scalable installation of Software.

Package managers can be used to install other package managers

Most programming languages or environments come with their own package management solutions, often integrating/mixing with a buildsystem

You don't get to choose, you routinely need to build from source and re-package your Software.

Mirroring untrusted, unverified dependencies does not solve any of our problems.

Integrity verification is meaningless without assurance of trust.

Dependencies are called dependencies because we depend on them.

Dependency trust and integrity is recursive.

Multi-user systems come with their own implications:
    Regular run-ins with the law
    Conflicts between users
    Scalability graph needs to be exponential
    users may want to keep files private
    users may want to share files
    users may (try to gain) access to files they shouldn’t have access to
    users may (want to) do things that affect other users
    different users may require different privileges

Granting privileges requires trust
    The more groups you have, the weaker the trust bonds are.
    Trust does not scale.

Authentication is proof of identity, not proof of authorization.

Authentication is done using something you know/ something you have/ something you are

Using multifactor Authentication can be helpful to some extent for Authentication.

Every Unix account:
    has a unique ID
    belongs to at least one group
    may or may not be password protected
    may or may not have a valid login program
    may or may not be allowed to escalate privileges

Every Unix file:
    is associated with a uid and a gid
    has a number of protection bits

Some tasks require special privileges. Example: Binding the port, changing local passwords.
Pretty much anything related to file systems

Unix groups enable arbitary collections of users to share resources. Limited to 16 to 32 members per group.

Even in the smallest environments, we find:
    a central user database
    users divided into different access groups
    access to systems is granted primarily by such group membership
    privileges on a system are also granted by such group membership

The privileges granted in this manner are commonly broken down and controlled via role-based access control(RBAC).

Multi-user truths:
    All users are equal.
    Some users are more equal than others.
    The principle of least privilege applies to all.
    Humans require trust.
    Trust does not scale.
    You will always face trade-offs.

